#Prototype Design Of Automatic Optical Linear Attenuation Coefficient Measuring Instrument Based On Atmega 2560 Microcontroller.
The linear attenuation coefficient is a value that states how much the electromagnetic wave is attenuated after passing through a certain test material, this value is highly dependent on the type of material and the wavelength of the electromagnetic wave. The attenuation coefficient is a consequence of the Lambert-Beer law, this law states that transmittance is directly proportional to the negative power of the thickness of the test material. This study aims to determine the linear attenuation coefficient of the fluid and the changes in the coefficient of each sample. In the measuring instrument, the HC-SR04 sensor is used to measure the optical path length (material thickness), while the BH1750 sensor is used to measure the intensity of light that penetrates the sample. This tool works by sending ultrasonic pulses with a frequency of 40 kHz to the sample, if the temperature and travel time of the ultrasonic pulse can be known, then the thickness of the material can be known, while the sensor will know the intensity of light coming out of the sample. If the thickness of the material and the intensity coming out of the material are known, then the coefficient value can be known. All control and calculations will be carried out by the microcontroller, the measurement results will be displayed on the LCD screen. The results of the wavelength measurement give a λ value of 629 nm. The error on the HC-SR04 and BH1750 sensors is 0.54% and 0.07%. The linear attenuation coefficient of Methylene Blue solution in a volume of 1 liter of water, with variations in the number of drops of 60, 30, and 15, is 84.54 ± 0.92 m^(-1), 42.31 ± 0.42 m^(-1), and 22.20 ± 0.37 m^(-1), respectively.
